---
layout: post
title: Biggest Challenges While Learning To Develop
---

Now I'm nowhere near the Web Developer I want to be, but each week I get a little closer to that goal.  There have been a few battles when learning to develop, each challenging in their own right.  When I was learning HTML and CSS, I had trouble with positioning elements, who am I kidding, that part can still challenging.  The syntax for both were easy to grasp, but it wasn't until my third or fourth website where I finally felt comfortable.  Each site I learn/try something new and it seemed to help me learn faster.  Especially if I was trying to do something specific or have a certain look or layout.  Eventually I was able to make static websites, now all I needed was some behavior, so naturally JavaScript became the next hurdle to jump.

JavaScript has been a major focus of mine lately; I know it's a language that any successful frontend developer needs to know.  That's easier said than done, I've tried plenty of times to learn, I've bought courses on *Udemy*, watched countless *YouTube* videos, read books, even subscribed to *CodeSchool*.  With all that learning material, it still wasn't sticking.  When I read about other developers who struggled to learn JavaScript, it made me feel better, but they weren't sharing how they finally learned.  I did come to the realization that I hadn't been putting what I was learning to use.  I finally started to make progress when I got to code and experiment on my own, just like I did with HTML and CSS.  I'm still learning JavaScript and I still have to reread documentation a million times, but I finally found what works for me.

My goal is to get better and more confident with JavaScript; I know that being proficient in JavaScript will make it easier to learn the next language.  Though I plan on being a Frontend Developer, I still like to know some backend languages like PHP and Ruby. When I was making a site in school, I had to create a contact page.  It wasn't required to make it functional, but it was heavily suggested to look into how to make one work.  I did my research and was introduced to PHP, in coding there's usually more than one way to achieve a goal.  After a google search, I saw a plethora of examples.  I had no idea what I was doing, I would copy and paste code, but it wouldn't work.  I finally stumbled on a YouTube video that was simple for me to implement in my page.  Success! I was the only one in class with a functioning contact page, it felt great. I want to revisit PHP after JavaScript so I can really understand what I was doing, it'll be the next language in my crosshairs.

I guess what I've learned on my road to becoming a developer, is that the more I actually do, the easier the next thing becomes. Experimenting and manipulating code to make it work has been my process all along. It's like when I was learning to draw (at a young age), I didn't get better till I started tracing comic books, it gave me insight into the choices the artist made.  I was able to learn perspective and anatomy by tracing, eventually I was able to draw the characters on my own.  I think the same applies with coding (at least I hope), eventually I'll be able to write code on my own without looking at examples. Okay, that'll probably never happen, but you know what I mean...
